Monica is the younger sister of Ross Geller. She is best friends with Rachel Green, Phoebe Buffay, Joey Tribbiani, and Ross\'s college roommate and best friend, Chandler Bing. Raised on Long Island, she was overweight in high school, weighing 255 pounds. Monica met Ross\'s friend, Chandler, when he and Ross were in college. After hearing Chandler call her fat, Monica lost weight and, in a flashback episode, tried to get revenge by seducing him but accidentally cut off his toe. Monica initially shared her New York City apartment with Phoebe Buffay, who had moved out over worries that their friendship would suffer due to Monica\'s obsessive tidiness. In the pilot episode, Rachel left her fiancee, Dr. Barry Farber, at the altar and moved in with Monica. Monica met Joey Tribbiani when he moved in with Chandler, who lived across the hall from Monica. It is revealed that upon first meeting, Monica had a crush on Joey. Monica and Ross are usually quite affectionate, although there is a lot of sibling rivalry. In many episodes, Ross and Monica used an odd childhood gesture - knocking their fists together with their thumbs pointing outward (as an alternative to "the finger"). Monica and Ross are particularly competitive around their parents, Jack and Judy, as Monica feels her parents favor Ross. Like Ross, Monica is part Jewish. Ross introduces Ben to Hanukkah and talks about getting Monica a Hanukkah present several times. Monica also mentions her Bat Mitzvah. Chandler also reminds her of this when Erica, the twins\' birth mother, mistakenly thinks she\'s a reverend. The Geller family also celebrates Christmas. "Neat Freak" Monica is comically obsessive-compulsive about her apartment and loves cleaning (describing the dry cleaner as her Disneyland). This personality trait becomes exaggerated as the series progresses. Examples of her maniac cleanliness are labelling cups, having sorted towels into eleven different categories (four mentioned being "everyday use", "fancy", "guest", and "fancy guest"), and describing her new workplace as being "not just Health Department clean, but Monica clean." She is also extremely territorial when it comes to cleaning, as shown when Chandler announced he'd hired a maid, and Monica snapped that she hoped he meant "mistress."