Phoebe Buffay is the younger twin daughter born to Phoebe Abbott and Frank Buffay, circa 1970; her identical twin sister Ursula, was born one minute earlier. Frank was married to Abbott\'s best friend, the unstable Lily, at the time; Lily adopted Phoebe and Ursula. She is from upstate New York, her father abandoned the family when she was very young, and Lily remarried an unnamed man. She mentions that her family was very poor (her stepfather sold his blood on her birthday to buy them food) and claims that her mother was a drug dealer. Lily committed suicide when Phoebe and Ursula were thirteen, by carbon monoxide poisoning; afterward their stepfather went to prison. She occasionally mentions Lily\'s strange behavior and methods of raising her children. By age 15, Phoebe was living on the streets. Her relationship with Ursula appears strained, ostensibly due to the latter's personality, which is portrayed as markedly aloof by comparison. Phoebe lived in many locations including an abandoned Buick LeSabre, an AMC Gremlin with "a guy named Cindy who talked to his hand," and with an albino man who washed windows outside the Port Authority Bus Terminal. She did not attend high school or college, but claimed that she met behind a dumpster with a small group to learn French, in which she is fluent. Phoebe occasionally resorted to mugging to survive; at one point, when she was 14, she mugged her later good friend Ross Geller near a comic shop, stealing the only copy of Ross' comic Science Boy, which she claims "taught me well". Phoebe also mentions that she once lived in Prague, Czech Republic but refuses to discuss it further. She also claims that she contracted hepatitis when a pimp spat in her mouth; was stabbed by a police officer, whom she stabbed in return; learned to box at a YMCA; has been tortured; and at one point made sombreros (and got called "bad little white girl" by her employer for not making them big enough). Phoebe moved in with Monica Geller after answering a roommate want ad, which began their friendship. While living with Monica, she married a man named Duncan Sullivan, a gay Canadian ice dancer, in order to help him obtain a green card. He later revealed that he is straight, and was just pretending to be gay "to fit in", resulting in a divorce, although Phoebe had genuine feelings for him. She moved out when she could no longer handle Monica's controlling tendencies, choosing to live with her grandmother in her apartment. After her grandmother's death, Phoebe inherited the apartment and her yellow taxicab. Phoebe also has a younger half-brother, Frank Buffay Jr. Phoebe served as a surrogate mother for Frank and his older wife Alice, who is also his former schoolteacher, eventually giving birth to their triplets.